README.md, before:

# Project 2

## Business Question

Seeking to build a story around the current sourcing of the materials (commodities) used for PPE gloves. Comparing US import/export data of specific commodities

How is the volume of imports/exports of gloves effected by the pandemic? 
1. Evaluate changes in distribution: What was the volume/distr in 2019? 2020? 
    time series - import: MONTHLY_CONSUMPTION_VALUE (aggregate by COMMODITY_DESCRIPTION or COMMODITY) by MONTH
                export: ALL_VALUES_MONTH (aggregate by COMMODITY_DESCRIPTION or COMMODITY) by MONTH)
    bar - import: COMMODITY by YEARLY_CONSUMPTION_VALUE - key by year
        export: COMMODITY by ALL_VALUES_YEAR
        make interactive by creating drop down to filter by commodity?

map - yearly vol by country/location? 

2. Is there a correlation between changes in PPE distribution vs Covid-19 cases?
    time series - compare total distr w/ total US cases/month
3. Are there countries/places we should be concerned about the pandemic causing shortages in supply?
    sankey graph    

Brainstorm:
    - What are import/export trends by geographical location?
    - foucs on country level
    - US region? 
    - country give name of product/origin location

Is there an export/import city we should be concerned about being hit by Covid etc
     - look at import/export values (policy standpoint)
     - look at highest volume
     - compare with Covid numbers

## Running the Project

Follow these instructions to run our project. We will include instructions for running all the way through the data pipeline, but you can skip to the instructions for launching the site if you'd like. 

### Building the Database
To get the data we used for our project:
1. Open our project in Jupyter Notebook.
2. Open and select Kernel > Restart and Run All for the following files:
    * exportAPI.ipynb
    * exportAPI2020.ipynb
    * importAPI.ipynb
    * importAPI2020.ipynb
    * COVID_Info.ipynb
3. Open write_data.ipynb and select Kernel > Restart and Run All.

Result: You have retrieved the data and added it to the database. 

### Launching the Site
To launch our interactive dashboard:
1. Open the command line and run: python app.py
    
    Note: Mac users may need to run FLASK_APP=app.py flask run instead.
2. In an Incognito browser, navigate to http://127.0.0.1:5000.

Result: You are able to see and use the dashboard.

### Available API Routes
The following routes are available to retrieve JSON data:

Note: Available HTS codes are: 3002, 3003, 3004, 3005, 3006

The following routes retrieve all data for a specific HTS code. Enter 0 to retrieve data for all codes.
* /export2019/{productCode}
* /import2019/{productCode}
* /export2020/{productCode}
* /import2020/{productCode}

The following routes retrieve monthly and yearly total data for a specific HTS code. Enter 0 to retrieve data for all codes.
* /export2019totals/{productCode}
* /import2019totals/{productCode}
* /export2020totals/{productCode}
* /import2020totals/{productCode}

The following route retrieves cumulative COVID data for the US for January 2020 - November 2020.
* /covid2020

## Group Contributions
* Courtney - 
* Danica - 
* Lauren - Added initial functionality to app.py for the original dataset to allow for the JSON calls. Built the Sankey diagram that displays the top 10 values of imports/exports and their source country/region & target country/region
* Siara - Retrieved and cleaned COVID data. Worked on the time series Plotly chart that displays COVID data vs. Import/Export data for 2020.
* Stacey -

Commit message:

adding updated readme with sources

README.md, after:

# Project 2

## Business Question

Seeking to build a story around the current sourcing for Pharmaceuticals and Medical supplies. Comparing US import/export data of specific commodities

How is the volume of imports/exports of Pharmaceuticals and Medical supplies effected by the pandemic? 
1. Evaluate changes in distribution: What was the volume/distr in 2019? 2020? 

2. Is there a correlation between changes in Pharmaceuticals and Medical supplies distribution vs Covid-19 cases?
    
3. Are there countries/places we should be concerned about the pandemic causing shortages in supply?
       

## Running the Project

Follow these instructions to run our project. We will include instructions for running all the way through the data pipeline, but you can skip to the instructions for launching the site if you'd like. 

### Building the Database
To get the data we used for our project:
1. Open our project in Jupyter Notebook.
2. Open and select Kernel > Restart and Run All for the following files:
    * exportAPI.ipynb
    * exportAPI2020.ipynb
    * importAPI.ipynb
    * importAPI2020.ipynb
    * COVID_Info.ipynb
3. Open write_data2.ipynb and select Kernel > Restart and Run All.

Result: You have retrieved the data and added it to the database. 

### Launching the Site
To launch our interactive dashboard:
1. Open the command line and run: python app.py
    
    Note: Mac users may need to run FLASK_APP=app.py flask run instead.
2. In an Incognito browser, navigate to http://127.0.0.1:5000.

Result: You are able to see and use the dashboard.

### Available API Routes
The following routes are available to retrieve JSON data:

Note: Available 4 digit Harmonized Tariff Schedule codes(HTS codes)[HTS codes](https://www.datamyne.com/whats-an-hs-or-hts-code/#:~:text=An%20HS%20or%20HTS%20code%20stands%20for%20Harmonized%20System%20or,and%20define%20internationally%20traded%20goods.&text=These%20codes%20go%20from%202,a%20specific%2010%2Ddigit%20code.)

 are: 3002, 3003, 3004, 3005, 3006

The following route returns the year over year quantity change over by product code for imports and exports
* /importexport

The following routes retrieve all data for a specific HTS code. Enter 0 to retrieve data for all codes.
* /export2019/{productCode}
* /import2019/{productCode}
* /export2020/{productCode}
* /import2020/{productCode}


The following routes retrieve monthly and yearly total data for a specific HTS code. Enter 0 to retrieve data for all codes.
* /export2019totals/{productCode}
* /import2019totals/{productCode}
* /export2020totals/{productCode}
* /import2020totals/{productCode}

The following route retrieves cumulative COVID data for the US for January 2020 - November 2020.
* /covid2020

## Group Contributions
* Courtney - Did research into PPE products, production and corresponding HTS codes. Created incial API call for the census data on PPE imports and Exports for 2019 and 2020. Sources can be found in the resource folder. (Resources-PPE_HTS)[http://localhost:8888/edit/Resources/PPE_HTS.csv]   
Added US latitude and Longitude coordinates for cities and states to be possiblely used for GEOjson chart.
* Danica - 
* Lauren - Added initial functionality to app.py for the original dataset to allow for the JSON calls. Built the Sankey diagram that displays the top 10 values of imports/exports and their source country/region & target country/region
* Siara - Retrieved and cleaned COVID data. Worked on the time series Plotly chart that displays COVID data vs. Import/Export data for 2020.
* Stacey -
